.. |version| replace:: 5.0

Version |version|
-----------------

Version |version| of the |product| is almost a complete rewrite.

Better navigation
   The new version has a clear separation between links to other pages (left sidebar),
   and links to sections on the current page (right sidebar).

Dark mode
   The theme follows a consistent design in light and dark mode and adjusts to your preference.

It's enough to load the theme as a theme
   You no longer need to load the theme as an extension.
   Like most other themes for Sphinx, it's enough to load it as ``html_theme``.
   Additional features are optional.
   If you want to use them, you can load the bundled extensions:

   - ``sphinxawesome_theme.highlighting``
   - ``sphinxawesome_theme.docsearch``

Redesign
   Heavily inspired by `shadcn/ui <https://ui.shadcn.com/docs>`_,
   including the black-and-white look and feel.


Upgrade to version |version|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to upgrade the theme to version |version|,
you might need to update your Sphinx configuration.
To help you find deprecated options,
you can add the bundled ``sphinxawesome_theme.deprecated`` extension.

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: |conf|

   extensions += ["sphinxawesome_theme.deprecated"]

The extension raises warnings if it finds deprecated options
and changes the deprecated options to their new values if possible.

Deprecated options
++++++++++++++++++

These options don't have any effect in version |version|:

``html_collapsible_definitions``
   Deprecated without direct replacement.
   The UX and implementation wasn't good.
   After all, references are meant to be scanned.

   You can use the `sphinx-design <https://sphinx-design.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
   extension instead and place single references inside a ``dropdown``.

``html_awesome_code_header``
   Deprecated without replacement.
   Mostly, the programming language of a code sample is already clear from its context.
   While it can be beneficial to make the language of an example explicit,
   there are alternative ways that already exist within Sphinx,
   such as, providing a caption.
   For code blocks in multiple languages,
   you can use the ``tab-set-code`` directive from the ``sphinx-design`` extension.

**DocSearch** is now an optional extension.
This creates a better separation between the *theme* and additional features,
that are separate from the theme.
The DocSearch-related options are deprecated.

``html_awesome_docsearch``
   Load the bundled ``sphinxawesome_theme.docsearch`` extension instead.

``docsearch_config``
   Provide the configuration options as individual options instead.
   For more information, see :ref:`sec:docsearch`.

These options are now keys in the ``html_theme_options`` dictionary
instead of top-level configuration options:

``html_awesome_headerlinks``
   Changed to ``awesome_headerlinks``

``html_awesome_external_links``
   Split into two options:

   - ``main_nav_links`` for text links in the header
   - ``extra_header_link_icon`` for icon links on the right side of the header.
