docs/demo/includes/notes-admonitions.rst, before:

Tips
----

Use the ``tip`` directive to highlight information that has a positive effect for users.
For example, a tip can be a shortcut or a confirmation.

.. tip::

   This is how a tip appears.

You can also use the ``hint`` directive,
which appears in the same style.

.. hint::

   Hints and tips appear in the same style.

Notes
-----

Use the ``note`` directive to provide extra information.

.. note::

   This is how a note appears.

To include a list of references, you can use the ``seealso`` directive.

.. seealso::

   :sphinxdocs:`Sphinx directives <usage/restructuredtext/directives.html>`
   `Docutils directives <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html>`_


To create notes with custom titles, use the ``admonition`` directive:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. admonition:: How to give a note a custom title?

      Enter the custom title after after the ``admonition`` directive.

This renders as:

.. admonition:: How to give a note a custom title?

   Enter the custom title after the ``admonition`` directive.

Cautions
--------

Use a ``caution`` directive to alert users about important issues.

.. caution::

   This is how a caution appears.

You can also use the ``important`` directive, which appears in the same style.

.. important::

   Important and caution callouts appear in the same style.

As does the ``warning`` directive.

.. warning::

   This is a warning.

And the ``attention`` directive.

.. attention::

   Makes you wonder what the semantic difference between all those callouts are.

Errors
------

You can use the ``error`` directive to inform users about errors..

.. error::

   This is how a warning appears.

You can also use the ``danger`` directive, which appears in the same style.

.. danger::

   This is how a potentially dangerous step appears.

Commit message:

feat: restyle everything (#1292)
Where to even begin? 

This PR is big but several ideas coincided that lead to this.

## Approach

I knew that back then, but copy/pasting whole methods from
Sphinx/Docutils to override them isn't worth their effect. As much as I
can, I just use the defaults and accept that the DOM might not be
_exactly_ what I want. That's why I originally used the `postprocessing`
approach to modify only the HTML DOM _after_ rendering.

## Python

I trimmed down the custom `HTMLTranslator` to just one method
`depart_reference` which I use to add an external link icon after
external reference links. I added an option for this, which is _False_
by default.

I implemented the `emphasize-text` option as a Pygments filter. Although
I have to override the `highlight_block` method for this, it's much
simpler than the `visit_literal_block` method.

The custom `HTMLFormatter` is now much simpler, just overriding the
`_highlight_lines` method. I removed all the custom wrapping and instead
use the `wrapcode` option of the Pygments HTML formatter.

The Post-processing code grew a little, but it's much simpler to add the
programming language to the code block headers in the HTML than it is to
modify the doctree in various places.

## Styles

I added the Tailwind Typography plugin and re-implemented the styles
using the Tailwind configuration. Although the CSS size is the same
(probably due to the lengthy selectors from Tailwind's Typography
plugin), I feel like there are much fewer and cleaner classes to achieve
the same look and feel.
All SVG icons have now `height` and `width` attributes to size them,
even when the CSS isn't immediately available.

docs/demo/includes/notes-admonitions.rst, after:

Tips
----

Use the ``tip`` directive to highlight information that has a positive effect for users.
For example, a tip can be a shortcut or a confirmation.

.. tip::

   This is how a tip appears.

You can also use the ``hint`` directive,
which appears in the same style.

.. hint::

   Hints and tips appear in the same style.

Topic
-----

The |product| doesn't include styles for the ``topic`` directive.
Use a block quotation or another alert type instead.

Notes
-----

Use the ``note`` directive to provide extra information.

.. note::

   This is how a note appears.

To include a list of references, you can use the ``seealso`` directive.

.. seealso::

   :sphinxdocs:`Sphinx directives <usage/restructuredtext/directives.html>`
   `Docutils directives <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html>`_


To create notes with custom titles, use the ``admonition`` directive:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. admonition:: How to give a note a custom title?

      Enter the custom title after after the ``admonition`` directive.

This renders as:

.. admonition:: How to give a note a custom title?

   Enter the custom title after the ``admonition`` directive.

Warnings
--------

Use a ``warning`` directive to alert users about important issues.

.. warning::

   This is a warning.

You can also use the ``important``, ``attention``, or ``caution`` directives, which appear in the same style.

.. caution::

   This is how a caution appears.

.. important::

   Important and caution callouts appear in the same style.

.. attention::

   Makes you wonder what the semantic difference between all those callouts are.

Errors
------

You can use the ``error`` directive to inform users about errors..

.. error::

   This is how an error appears.

You can also use the ``danger`` directive, which appears in the same style.

.. danger::

   This is how a potentially dangerous step appears.
