docs/how-to/using.md, before:

---
html_meta:
  description: |
    Find out how to make your Sphinx documentation awesome by using the features of the
    Awesome Theme.
---

# Make your documentation awesome

```{rst-class} lead
Make the most out of your Sphinx documentation by using the features of the
{{ product }}.
```

```{contents} On this page
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

## Use headerlink icons

Sphinx shows a `¶` character after section titles and captions.
Since Sphinx 3.5, you can change the default with the setting
{confval}`sphinx:html_permalinks_icon`.

For example, replace the default character with a `#` character:

```{code-block} python
---
caption: "File: conf.py"
---
html_permalinks_icon = "<span>#</span>"
```

If you want to use plain characters, it's better to wrap them in a HTML `<span>` element.
This way, the icon is only shown when you hover over the heading.
You can also use SVG icons.

Clicking any headerlink directly copies the URL to the clipboard. To revert to the
default behavior, set the option {confval}`html_awesome_headerlinks` to `False`.

## Highlight placeholder text in code blocks

To highlight text in code blocks, add the {samp}`emphasize-text: {PLACEHOLDER}` option to the `code-block`
directive.

For example:

```rst

.. code-block::
   :emphasize-text: PLACEHOLDER

   echo "Replace PLACEHOLDER text"
```

renders as:

```{code-block} shell
---
emphasize-text: PLACEHOLDER
---
echo "Replace PLACEHOLDER"
```

## Highlight code changes

Sometimes, you want to highlight changes in code, for example, lines of code that should
be removed or added.

To highlight removed lines in a code snippet, use the `emphasize-removed` option.
To highlight added lines, use the `emphasize-added` option.

For example:

```rst

.. code-block:: shell
   :emphasize-removed: 1
   :emphasize-added: 2

   echo "Hello World"
   echo "Hello You"
```

renders as:

```{code-block} shell
---
emphasize-removed: 1
emphasize-added: 2
---
echo "Hello World"
echo "Hello You"
```

You can also use the built-in `diff` language to get a similar effect:

```rst

.. code-block:: diff

   + echo "Hello You"
   - echo "Hello World"
```

renders as:

```{code-block} diff
+ echo "Hello You"
- echo "Hello World"
```

Using this approach, you _only_ highlight the changes. The rest of the lines render as
plain text without syntax highlighting. If you copy the code, the `+` and `-` characters
are copied as well.

<!-- vale Google.Headings = NO -->

## Add as-you-type search with Algolia DocSearch

<!-- vale Google.Headings = YES -->

To get a fast and relevant _search-as-you-type_ experience,
you can use Algolia DocSearch as a replacement for Sphinx' built-in search.
It's free for open source documentation projects and blogs with technical content.

Commit message:

docs: better writing (#762)
* docs: better writing
* chore: netlify packages
* chore: forgot to add package

docs/how-to/using.md, after:

---
html_meta:
  description: |
    Find out how to make your Sphinx documentation awesome by using the features of the
    Awesome Theme.
---

# Make your documentation awesome

```{rst-class} lead
Make the most out of your Sphinx documentation by using the features of the
{{ product }}.
```

```{contents} On this page
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

## Use headerlink icons

By default, Sphinx shows a `¶` character after section titles and captions
("permalinks").
Since Sphinx 3.5, you can change the default with the setting
{confval}`sphinx:html_permalinks_icon`.

For example, you can replace the default character with a `#` character:

```{code-block} python
---
caption: "File: conf.py"
---
html_permalinks_icon = "<span>#</span>"
```

You can use SVG icons (like on this page) or plain characters.
If you're using plain characters with the {{ product }},
wrap them in a `<span>` element.
This shows the headerlinks only when hovering over the heading,
or changing focus with your keyboard.

Headerlinks are often used to share links to specific sections in documentation.
The {{ product }} makes that a little easier by copying the URL to the clipboard
when clicking a headerlink.
To revert to the default behavior, set the option {confval}`html_awesome_headerlinks` to `False`.

## Highlight placeholder text in code blocks

To highlight text in code blocks, add the {samp}`emphasize-text: {PLACEHOLDER}` option to the `code-block`
directive.

For example:

```rst

.. code-block::
   :emphasize-text: PLACEHOLDER

   echo "Replace PLACEHOLDER text"
```

renders as:

```{code-block} shell
---
emphasize-text: PLACEHOLDER
---
echo "Replace PLACEHOLDER"
```

## Highlight code changes

Sometimes, you want to highlight changes in code, for example, lines of code that should
be removed or added.

To highlight removed lines in a code snippet, use the `emphasize-removed` option.
To highlight added lines, use the `emphasize-added` option.

For example:

```rst

.. code-block:: shell
   :emphasize-removed: 1
   :emphasize-added: 2

   echo "Hello World"
   echo "Hello You"
```

renders as:

```{code-block} shell
---
emphasize-removed: 1
emphasize-added: 2
---
echo "Hello World"
echo "Hello You"
```

You can also use the built-in `diff` language to get a similar effect:

```rst

.. code-block:: diff

   + echo "Hello You"
   - echo "Hello World"
```

renders as:

```{code-block} diff
+ echo "Hello You"
- echo "Hello World"
```

Using this approach, you _only_ highlight the changes. The rest of the lines render as
plain text without syntax highlighting. If you copy the code, the `+` and `-` characters
are copied as well.

<!-- vale Google.Headings = NO -->

## Add as-you-type search with Algolia DocSearch

<!-- vale Google.Headings = YES -->

To get a fast and relevant _search-as-you-type_ experience,
you can use Algolia DocSearch as a replacement for Sphinx' built-in search.
It's free for open source documentation projects and blogs with technical content.
