docs/demo/lists.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: See how lists look like in the Awesome Theme. Discover the styles for ordered, unordered, and description lists.

Lists
=====

.. rst-class:: lead

   See how lists appear in the |product|.

----

Unordered lists
---------------

Choose an unordered, or bulleted, list, when the order of items doesn't matter.

.. vale Vale.Spelling = NO

- item a
- item b

  - subitem a

    This is an example with multiple paragraphs.

    Although there are only 3.

  - subitem b
  - subitem c

- item c

Ordered lists
-------------

Choose an ordered list,
when the order of the items matters.
For example, use ordered lists in step-by-step instructions.

#. Step 1
#. Step 2

   #. Substep 1

      This is an example with multiple paragraphs.

      Although there are only 3.

   #. Substep 2
   #. Substep 3

#. Step 3

.. vale Vale.Spelling = YES

Definition lists
----------------

Use definition lists for describing terms and their definitions.

Term a
   Definition for term a.

   We need a few more paragraphs to test something.

   Specifically, the spacing within these elements.

Term b
   Definition for term b. How about a quote in a definition list?

       This is supposed to be a quote.
       Is the spacing okay?

Term c
   Definition for term c.

Commit message:

feat: complete redesign (#1309)
This PR is a complete redesign of the theme.

docs/demo/lists.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: See how lists look like in the Awesome Theme. Discover the styles for ordered, unordered, and description lists.
   :twitter:description: See how lists look like in the Awesome Theme. Discover the styles for ordered, unordered, and description lists.

Lists
=====

.. rst-class:: lead

   See how lists appear in the |product|.

Unordered lists
---------------

Choose an unordered, or bulleted, list, when the order of items doesn't matter.

.. vale Vale.Spelling = NO

- item a
- item b

  - subitem a

    This is an example with multiple paragraphs.

    Although there are only 3.

  - subitem b
  - subitem c

- item c

Ordered lists
-------------

Choose an ordered list,
when the order of the items matters.
For example, use ordered lists in step-by-step instructions.

#. Step 1
#. Step 2

   #. Substep 1

      This is an example with multiple paragraphs.

      Although there are only 3.

   #. Substep 2
   #. Substep 3

#. Step 3

.. vale Vale.Spelling = YES

Definition lists
----------------

Use definition lists for describing terms and their definitions.

Term a
   Definition for term a.

   We need a few more paragraphs to test something.

   Specifically, the spacing within these elements.

Term b
   Definition for term b. How about a quote in a definition list?

       This is supposed to be a quote.
       Is the spacing okay?

Term c
   Definition for term c.
