docs/demo/text.rst, before:

Headings and text
=================

This page shows basic paragraph and heading styles. Styles for heading levels ``h1``,
``h2``, ``h3``, ``h4`` and the special rubric heading are defined. Only heading levels
``h1``, ``h2``, and ``h3`` show up in the navigation menu.

Inline markup
-------------

For emphasizing inline text, you can either *emphasize* it or make it a **strong**
statement.

Level 2 heading
---------------

.. vale Awesome.SpellCheck = NO

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam vehicula lectus est, ac
volutpat odio fringilla quis. Integer vitae molestie eros, ac eleifend nisi. Proin sit
amet odio non turpis mattis laoreet finibus vitae nisi. Nam vehicula sapien vel pulvinar
facilisis. Duis bibendum tortor sit amet sollicitudin gravida. Donec ut ante mattis,
faucibus nulla cursus, dictum dolor.

Level 3 heading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam vehicula lectus est, ac
volutpat odio fringilla quis. Integer vitae molestie eros, ac eleifend nisi. Proin sit
amet odio non turpis mattis laoreet finibus vitae nisi. Nam vehicula sapien vel pulvinar
facilisis. Duis bibendum tortor sit amet sollicitudin gravida. Donec ut ante mattis,
faucibus nulla cursus, dictum dolor.

Level 4 heading
+++++++++++++++

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam vehicula lectus est, ac
volutpat odio fringilla quis. Integer vitae molestie eros, ac eleifend nisi. Proin sit
amet odio non turpis mattis laoreet finibus vitae nisi. Nam vehicula sapien vel pulvinar
facilisis. Duis bibendum tortor sit amet sollicitudin gravida. Donec ut ante mattis,
faucibus nulla cursus, dictum dolor.

.. vale Awesome.SpellCheck = YES

.. rubric:: Rubric heading

A :sphinxdocs:`rubric <usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#directive-rubric>`
is a special type of paragraph heading that doesn't appear in the table of contents.
You can generate it using the :samp:`.. rubric:: {TITLE}` directive.
It's rendered with the same styling as an ``h4`` heading.

Commit message:

docs: add meta descriptions (#649)
* docs: add meta descriptions

* docs: vale issues

docs/demo/text.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Textual elements like paragraphs and headings are essential parts of any documentation. Find out how they look like in this theme.

Headings and text
=================

This page shows basic paragraph and heading styles. Styles for heading levels ``h1``,
``h2``, ``h3``, ``h4`` and the special rubric heading are defined. Only heading levels
``h1``, ``h2``, and ``h3`` show up in the navigation menu.

Inline markup
-------------

For emphasizing inline text, you can either *emphasize* it or make it a **strong**
statement.

Level 2 heading
---------------

.. vale Awesome.SpellCheck = NO

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam vehicula lectus est, ac
volutpat odio fringilla quis. Integer vitae molestie eros, ac eleifend nisi. Proin sit
amet odio non turpis mattis laoreet finibus vitae nisi. Nam vehicula sapien vel pulvinar
facilisis. Duis bibendum tortor sit amet sollicitudin gravida. Donec ut ante mattis,
faucibus nulla cursus, dictum dolor.

Level 3 heading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam vehicula lectus est, ac
volutpat odio fringilla quis. Integer vitae molestie eros, ac eleifend nisi. Proin sit
amet odio non turpis mattis laoreet finibus vitae nisi. Nam vehicula sapien vel pulvinar
facilisis. Duis bibendum tortor sit amet sollicitudin gravida. Donec ut ante mattis,
faucibus nulla cursus, dictum dolor.

Level 4 heading
+++++++++++++++

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam vehicula lectus est, ac
volutpat odio fringilla quis. Integer vitae molestie eros, ac eleifend nisi. Proin sit
amet odio non turpis mattis laoreet finibus vitae nisi. Nam vehicula sapien vel pulvinar
facilisis. Duis bibendum tortor sit amet sollicitudin gravida. Donec ut ante mattis,
faucibus nulla cursus, dictum dolor.

.. vale Awesome.SpellCheck = YES

.. rubric:: Rubric heading

A :sphinxdocs:`rubric <usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#directive-rubric>`
is a special type of paragraph heading that doesn't appear in the table of contents.
You can generate it using the :samp:`.. rubric:: {TITLE}` directive.
It's rendered with the same styling as an ``h4`` heading.
