docs/how-to/build-your-own/index.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Make your own theme by building on top of this theme. Fully customize the styles, JavaScript, and templates.

Build your own theme
====================

.. rst-class:: lead

   Build your own theme by changing the templates or CSS.

.. include:: ../../includes/header.rst

The project has both Python and JavaScript dependencies.
If you want to write documentation or modify the Python extensions,
:ref:`install the Python dependencies <sec:install-python-deps>`.

If you want to edit the Jinja2 templates, the CSS, or the JavaScript files,
you also need to :ref:`install the JavaScript dependencies <sec:install-js-deps>`.

.. note::

   Because this theme uses `Tailwind CSS <https://tailwindcss.com>`_ to apply styles,
   you  need to build the theme when you make modifications to the styles.
   It's best to install the JavaScript dependencies,
   even if you just want to edit the HTML templates.

.. include:: includes/prepare-python-environment.rst
.. include:: includes/install-python-dependencies.rst
.. include:: includes/prepare-js-environment.rst
.. include:: includes/install-js-dependencies.rst

Commit message:

feat: complete redesign (#1309)
This PR is a complete redesign of the theme.

docs/how-to/build-your-own/index.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Make your own theme by building on top of this theme. Fully customize the styles, JavaScript, and templates.
   :twitter:description: Make your own theme by building on top of this theme. Fully customize the styles, JavaScript, and templates.

Build your own theme
====================

.. rst-class:: lead

   Build your own theme by changing the templates or CSS.

----

The project has both Python and JavaScript dependencies.
If you want to write documentation or modify the Python extensions,
:ref:`install the Python dependencies <sec:install-python-deps>`.

If you want to edit the Jinja2 templates, the CSS, or the JavaScript files,
you also need to :ref:`install the JavaScript dependencies <sec:install-js-deps>`.

.. note::

   Because this theme uses `Tailwind CSS <https://tailwindcss.com>`_ to apply styles,
   you  need to build the theme when you make modifications to the styles.
   It's best to install the JavaScript dependencies,
   even if you just want to edit the HTML templates.

.. include:: includes/prepare-python-environment.rst
.. include:: includes/install-python-dependencies.rst
.. include:: includes/prepare-js-environment.rst
.. include:: includes/install-js-dependencies.rst
