docs/how-to/configure/includes/extension-options.rst, before:

.. _sec:extension-options:

Extension options
-----------------

If you added the |product| as an extension,
you can configure these options:

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: File: conf.py

   html_collapsible_definitions = False  # Deprecated
   html_awesome_headerlinks = True
   html_awesome_code_headers = True
   html_awesome_docsearch = False

``html_collapsible_definitions``
   Controls whether to make code objects, such as classes, collapsible.

   .. deprecated:: 4.0.3

      Use the sphinx-design_ extension instead. (Removed in 5.0.0)

``html_awesome_headerlinks``
   Controls whether clicking a headerlink should copy the URL to the clipboard.

``html_awesome_code_headers``
   Controls whether to show the highlighted programming language in the headers of code blocks.

``html_awesome_docsearch``
   Controls whether to use `Algolia DocSearch <https://docsearch.algolia.com/>`_ instead of the built-in search.


.. _sphinx-design: https://sphinx-design.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Commit message:

feat: restyle everything (#1292)
Where to even begin? 

This PR is big but several ideas coincided that lead to this.

## Approach

I knew that back then, but copy/pasting whole methods from
Sphinx/Docutils to override them isn't worth their effect. As much as I
can, I just use the defaults and accept that the DOM might not be
_exactly_ what I want. That's why I originally used the `postprocessing`
approach to modify only the HTML DOM _after_ rendering.

## Python

I trimmed down the custom `HTMLTranslator` to just one method
`depart_reference` which I use to add an external link icon after
external reference links. I added an option for this, which is _False_
by default.

I implemented the `emphasize-text` option as a Pygments filter. Although
I have to override the `highlight_block` method for this, it's much
simpler than the `visit_literal_block` method.

The custom `HTMLFormatter` is now much simpler, just overriding the
`_highlight_lines` method. I removed all the custom wrapping and instead
use the `wrapcode` option of the Pygments HTML formatter.

The Post-processing code grew a little, but it's much simpler to add the
programming language to the code block headers in the HTML than it is to
modify the doctree in various places.

## Styles

I added the Tailwind Typography plugin and re-implemented the styles
using the Tailwind configuration. Although the CSS size is the same
(probably due to the lengthy selectors from Tailwind's Typography
plugin), I feel like there are much fewer and cleaner classes to achieve
the same look and feel.
All SVG icons have now `height` and `width` attributes to size them,
even when the CSS isn't immediately available.

docs/how-to/configure/includes/extension-options.rst, after:

.. _sec:extension-options:

Extension options
-----------------

If you added the |product| as an extension,
you can configure these options:

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: File: conf.py

   html_collapsible_definitions = False  # Deprecated
   html_awesome_headerlinks = True
   html_awesome_code_headers = True
   html_awesome_docsearch = False
   html_awesome_external_links = False

``html_collapsible_definitions``
   Controls whether to make code objects, such as classes, collapsible.

   .. deprecated:: 4.0.3

      Use the sphinx-design_ extension instead. (Removed in 5.0.0)

``html_awesome_headerlinks``
   Controls whether clicking a headerlink should copy the URL to the clipboard.

.. _opt:html_awesome_code_headers:

``html_awesome_code_headers``
   Controls whether to show the highlighted programming language in the headers of code blocks.

``html_awesome_docsearch``
   Controls whether to use `Algolia DocSearch`_ instead of the built-in search.

``html_awesome_external_links``
   Controls whether to show an icon after external links.

   .. versionadded:: 5.0.0

      In previous versions, this was always enabled.

.. _sphinx-design: https://sphinx-design.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _Algolia DocSearch: https://docsearch.algolia.com/
