docs/about.md, before:

---
orphan: true
layout: "without-sidebar"
---

(sec:about)=

# About

```{rst-class} lead
This pages lists assets that this theme uses to be awesome.
```

---

To see the full list of dependencies, see these files:

- {gh}`pyproject.toml` for Python dependencies
- {gh}`package.json <src/theme-src/package.json>` for JavaScript dependencies

<!-- vale Awesome.SpellCheck = NO -->
<!-- vale 18F.UnexpandedAcronyms = NO -->

| Feature                                               | Name/Website                                                             | License                                                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CSS framework                                         | [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)                                     | [MIT License](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/master/LICENSE)               |
| Copy to clipboard                                     | [Clipboard.js](https://clipboardjs.com/)                                 | [MIT License](https://github.com/zenorocha/clipboard.js/blob/master/LICENSE)                 |
| Fonts                                                 | [Roboto](https://github.com/googlefonts/roboto)                          | [Apache License, Version 2.0]                                                                |
|                                                       | [JetBrains Mono](https://github.com/JetBrains/JetBrainsMono/)            | [SIL Open Font License, 1.1](https://github.com/JetBrains/JetBrainsMono/blob/master/OFL.txt) |
| Icons                                                 | [Material icons](https://fonts.google.com/icons?selected=Material+Icons) | [Apache License, Version 2.0]                                                                |
| Tooltips                                              | [Primer/CSS](https://primer.style/css/)                                  | [MIT License](https://github.com/primer/css/blob/main/LICENSE)                               |
| **Note:** versions ≤ 1.13.1 used these icons instead: | [Entypo](http://www.entypo.com) by Daniel Bruce                          | [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0]                                                |
|                                                       | [Zondicons](http://www.zondicons.com) by Steve Schoger                   | ?                                                                                            |
| Illustrations                                         | [undraw.co](https://undraw.co)                                           | [custom](https://undraw.co/license)                                                          |

<!-- vale Awesome.SpellCheck = YES -->
<!-- vale 18F.UnexpandedAcronyms = YES -->

[creative commons attribution-sharealike 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode
[apache license, version 2.0]: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html

Commit message:

docs: add meta descriptions (#649)
* docs: add meta descriptions

* docs: vale issues

docs/about.md, after:

---
orphan: true
layout: "without-sidebar"
html_meta:
  description: The Awesome Sphinx Theme is built on top of open-source assets. Click to learn more.
---

(sec:about)=

# About

```{rst-class} lead
This pages lists assets that this theme uses to be awesome.
```

---

To see the full list of dependencies, see these files:

- {gh}`pyproject.toml` for Python dependencies
- {gh}`package.json <src/theme-src/package.json>` for JavaScript dependencies

<!-- vale Awesome.SpellCheck = NO -->
<!-- vale 18F.UnexpandedAcronyms = NO -->

| Feature                                               | Name/Website                                                             | License                                                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CSS framework                                         | [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)                                     | [MIT License](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/master/LICENSE)               |
| Copy to clipboard                                     | [Clipboard.js](https://clipboardjs.com/)                                 | [MIT License](https://github.com/zenorocha/clipboard.js/blob/master/LICENSE)                 |
| Fonts                                                 | [Roboto](https://github.com/googlefonts/roboto)                          | [Apache License, Version 2.0]                                                                |
|                                                       | [JetBrains Mono](https://github.com/JetBrains/JetBrainsMono/)            | [SIL Open Font License, 1.1](https://github.com/JetBrains/JetBrainsMono/blob/master/OFL.txt) |
| Icons                                                 | [Material icons](https://fonts.google.com/icons?selected=Material+Icons) | [Apache License, Version 2.0]                                                                |
| Tooltips                                              | [Primer/CSS](https://primer.style/css/)                                  | [MIT License](https://github.com/primer/css/blob/main/LICENSE)                               |
| **Note:** versions ≤ 1.13.1 used these icons instead: | [Entypo](http://www.entypo.com) by Daniel Bruce                          | [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0]                                                |
|                                                       | [Zondicons](http://www.zondicons.com) by Steve Schoger                   | ?                                                                                            |
| Illustrations                                         | [undraw.co](https://undraw.co)                                           | [custom](https://undraw.co/license)                                                          |

<!-- vale Awesome.SpellCheck = YES -->
<!-- vale 18F.UnexpandedAcronyms = YES -->

[creative commons attribution-sharealike 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode
[apache license, version 2.0]: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
