docs/index.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: A theme for Sphinx to create beautiful documentation with Python.
   :keywords: documentation, sphinx, python
   :og\:title: Sphinx awesome theme
   :og\:description: A theme for Sphinx to create beautiful documentation with Python.


Sphinx awesome theme
====================

The Sphinx awesome theme is a simple but beautiful theme for the Sphinx_ documentation
generator. These pages are divided into a *docs* and a *demo* section. In the *docs*
section, you can learn how to :ref:`install <How to install the theme>`, :ref:`use <How
to use the theme>`, or :ref:`modify <How to modify the theme>` the theme.  If you want
to see which styles are available, check the pages in the *demo* section.

The Sphinx awesome theme is available under the open-source MIT license. The source code
is hosted on Github_.

.. _Sphinx: https://www.sphinx-doc.org
.. _Github: https://github.com/kai687/sphinxawesome-theme

.. admonition:: What is a theme?

   A theme is a bundle of website templates, styles and JavaScript files that allows you
   to change the look and feel of your documentation by changing a configuration
   setting.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :caption: docs

   docs/install
   docs/use
   docs/development
   about

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :caption: demo
   :glob:

   demo/*

Commit message:

feat: listed features in docs (#34)

docs/index.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: A theme for Sphinx to create beautiful documentation with Python.
   :keywords: documentation, sphinx, python
   :og\:title: Sphinx awesome theme
   :og\:description: A theme for Sphinx to create beautiful documentation with Python.


Sphinx awesome theme
====================

The Sphinx awesome theme is an awesome theme for the Sphinx_ documentation
generator. It includes a number of usability improvements:

.. include:: ../README.rst
   :start-after: features-start
   :end-before: features-end

These pages are divided into a *docs* and a *demo* section. In the *docs*
section, you can learn how to :ref:`install <How to install the theme>`, :ref:`use <How
to use the theme>`, or :ref:`modify <How to modify the theme>` the theme. If you want
to see which styles are available, check the pages in the *demo* section.

The Sphinx awesome theme is available under the open-source MIT license. The source code
is hosted on Github_.

.. _Sphinx: https://www.sphinx-doc.org
.. _Github: https://github.com/kai687/sphinxawesome-theme

.. admonition:: What is a theme?

   A theme is a bundle of website templates, styles and JavaScript files that allows you
   to change the look and feel of your documentation by changing a configuration
   setting.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :caption: docs

   docs/install
   docs/use
   docs/development
   about

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :caption: demo
   :glob:

   demo/*
